TRAINING NOTES

Database is an organised collection of data in the form of tables(rows and columns).
Number of columns in a table is known as degree of the table.
Number of rows in a table is known as cardinality of the table.

A single database can contain multiple tables whereas a single table can contain multiple columns and rows.
We can create relation between more than one table with the help of primary and foreign keys where primary key 
can't have a null value, can't be left blank and no duplicates.
After creation of primary key in one table, we can create foreign key(s) in another table(s).
Here foreign key can contain null values and duplicate values.

Note- session is a 32 bit long alpha-numeric id.

(Next topic- subquery and joins.)

Imp queries- select table_name from user_tables;
	        select name from v$database;
		   select username from dba_users;

Whatever message like "Processessed succesfully" or "table created" is generated by the 
implicit cursor which points to the context area.
Docker hub is the main portal where everyone can upload or dowload docker images from.


Docker image- Containers copies to each developer. (Like class-object relationship)
Docker container is like an instance of the docker image.
To generate this message, Docker took the following steps:
1. The Docker client contacted the Docker daemon.
2. The Docker daemon pulled the "hello-world" image from the Docker Hub. (arm64v8) 
3. The Docker daemon created a new container from that image which runs till
 executable that produces the output you are currently reading. 
4. The Docker daemon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent to your terminal.

Large projects being broken down into small chunks known as iterations (developing parallely)
 -> release -> feedback -> enhance -> re-release
get to know the pros and cons of the project and change the cons in the next iteration 
according to the market feedback. (5 to 9 people should be in an agile-based team) 
Advantages-
1. Frequent delivery.
2. Face to face communication with client.
3. Quick changes.
4. Saves time.

Disadvantages.
1. Less documentation.
2. Maintenance problem.

ROLES IN AGILE-

Solution designer makes the srs document, analysed by system analyst and 
solution architect approves it.
Product owner makes the product backlog and lastly approves it upon completion.
Scrum master is the default team lead if not provided differently.
Application modelling- class diagram, sequence diagram, use case diagram
and data modelling- ER diagram and schema diagram.
Sprint document gives the name of the memebers and the time they've to complete the task in.

What is 'task done' in agile?
1. when the entire task (dev and test) are done.
2. When all the acceptance tests are running are passed.
3. When no defects found.
4. Product owner has accepted the requirement.
5. When the software product is delivered to the end user.

Maven- devOps tool for java.

Design steps-

1. Wireframe
2. Schema diagram (database, queries)
3. User interface


CI/CD 
CI involves unit test cases being written with the functionality and the test cases will be
performed together with the existing ones.
Developer: code+unit test -> push git -> jenkins -> CI pipeline(if no error) ->
CD pipeline (will take code from CI) -> Git -> QA

To conclude, CI/CD is the process of building, testing and deploying applications everytime a code changes
to update and deliver changes. Whenever a developer pushed any code, a CI server like jenkins will continuously 
monitor the new code changes and if they are detected, it triggers a pipeline
which automiatically builds and tests the code, this process is known as continuous integration.
Once the code is built and test, it's ready for deployment.